W-12520153-new-pricing (#161)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/pricing-metrics.adoc

> = Usage Metrics

Author: MuleSoft captures usage data for Mule flows, Mule messages, and data throughput, but not all of this data is aggregated in usage reports.

> = Pricing and Usage Metrics

Author: ```suggestion
= Usage Metrics
```

> [In progress]

Author: ```suggestion
MuleSoft captures usage data for Mule flows, Mule messages, and data throughput, but not all of this data is aggregated in usage reports. 
```

> MuleSoft offers a pricing and packaging model for Anypoint Platform that allots a number of Mule flows, Mule messages, and data throughput (measured as network I/O bytes). Not all types of Mule flows and messages count towards the allotments in a package. 

Author: ```suggestion
For select customers in the US control plane, MuleSoft offers a pricing and packaging model for Anypoint Platform that allots a number of Mule flows, Mule messages, and data throughput (measured as network I/O bytes). Not all types of Mule flows and messages count toward the allotments in a package. 
```

> For select customers in the US control plane, MuleSoft offers a pricing and packaging model for Anypoint Platform that allots a number of Mule flows, Mule messages, and data throughput (measured as network I/O bytes). Not all types of Mule flows and messages count toward the allotments in a package. 

Author: ```suggestion

For select customers in the US control plane, MuleSoft offers a pricing and packaging model for Anypoint Platform that allots a number of Mule flows, Mule messages, and data throughput (measured as network I/O bytes). Not all types of Mule flows and messages count toward the allotments in a package. 
```

[[mule-flows]]
== Mule Flows

> A _Mule flow_ is a sequence of logical operations configured in XML using the `<flow>` element. A Mule app can consist of a single Mule flow, or it can break up processing into discrete xref:mule-runtime::about-flows.adoc[Mule Flows and subflows] that you add to the app and connect together. Mule apps in production environments typically use multiple Mule Flows and subflows to divide the app into functional modules or for error-handling purposes. For example, one Mule flow might receive a record and transform data into a given format that another flow processes in some special way. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _Mule flow_ is a sequence of logical operations configured in XML by using the `<flow>` element. A Mule app can consist of a single Mule flow, or it can break up processing into discrete xref:mule-runtime::about-flows.adoc[Mule flows and subflows] that you add to the app and connect together. Mule apps in production environments typically use multiple Mule flows and subflows to divide the app into functional modules or for error-handling purposes. For example, one Mule flow might receive a record and transform data into a given format that another flow processes. 
```

> === Which Mule Flow Scenarios Count towards your Anypoint Platform Package Allotment?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Mule Flow Scenarios that Count Towards Your Anypoint Platform Package Allotment
```

Reviewer: Suggest this instead of having a question in the heading: Mule Flow Scenarios that Count Towards Your Anypoint Platform Package Allotment

> Only certain types of Mule flows count towards your allotment:

Author: ```suggestion
The following Mule flows count towards your allotment:
```

 
* Flows that contain a xref:mule-runtime::about-mule-event.adoc[Mule event source] 

> * xref:apikit::index.adoc[Flows generated by APIkit] that are used to process API requests 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:apikit::index.adoc[Flows generated by APIkit] that process API requests 
```

Reviewer: For line 14 , I suggest: The following Mule flows count towards your allotment:

.2+| sap | document-listener | function-listener
| servicebus | listener
| sftp | listener
| sockets | listener
.2+| solace | queue-listener | topic-listener
.2+| sqs | receive-messages | receivemessages
.3+| stripe | citizen-on-new-charge-listener | on-new-charge-listener | on-new-event-listener
| vm | listener
.2+| websocket | inbound-listener | outbound-listener
|===

// Example Use-case [1 Mule flow]: A CSV file with customer contacts needs to be uploaded to CRM on a regularly scheduled basis

// image

// Using a single Mule flow with four elements, this application accepts CSV files that contain contact information, and then uploads the contacts to MS Dynamics. The Mule flow accepts a CSV file by polling a local folder at frequent intervals that are set with a Scheduler (event source) component. 

// The columns of the CSV file contain selected contact information, such as first name, last name, phone number, and email. These columns are mapped to each of the respective fields in a specific Dynamics CRM account, and the rows are uploaded.

> === Mule Flow Generated by APIKit and used for the routing of APIKit Requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Mule Flow Generated by APIKit and Used for Routing APIKit Requests
```

> APIkit is a tool that simplifies the implementation of APIs by automatically generating a minimal set of Mule flows based on the API specification. Each APIKit router endpoint counts as a distinct Mule flow. These Mule flows do not have an event source and are used for the handling of HTTP requests for a particular method and path of an API.

Reviewer: ...for a particular API method and path.

Author: ```suggestion
APIkit is a tool that simplifies the implementation of APIs by automatically generating a minimal set of Mule flows based on the API specification. Each APIKit router endpoint counts as a distinct Mule flow. These Mule flows do not have an event source and are used for the handling of HTTP requests for a particular API method and path.
```

> ==== Example of APIKit Request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Example of an APIKit Request:
```

> Example 1.b - This flow is used for the routing of APIKit requests. In this case, the flow handles the GET request in the `/reservation` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This flow routes APIKit requests and handles the GET request in the `/reservation` path:
```

Reviewer: Why is this example 1.b?

[source,xml]
----
<flow name="get:\reservation:cocheras-puerto-madero-api-config">
        <logger level="INFO" message="#[output json --- attributes.queryParams]" />
</flow>
----

// Example Use-case [12 flows]: New customer profile data needs to be moved from Marketing Cloud to Master Data Management (MDM) 

// Mule Flow with Event Source [1]: Main Mule Flow with the HTTP listener that routes message to appropriate flow generated by APIKit based on the message content.

// image 

// Mule Flows used for routing APIKit Requests [11]:

// image

[[non-billable-flows]]

> === Mule Flows that do not Count against your Anypoint Platform Package Allotment 

Reviewer: Initial cap all headings per our style

Author: ```suggestion
=== Mule Flows that Do Not Count Against Your Anypoint Platform Package Allotment 
```

> Mule Flows that do not have an event source and are not used for the routing of APIKit requests are not charged against your Anypoint Platform package allotment. These are Mule flows primarily used for modularization of code, or code reuse purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule Flows that do not have an event source and are not used for the routing of APIKit requests are not charged against your Anypoint Platform package allotment. These are Mule flows primarily used to modularize code.
```

Reviewer: Modularizing code can be for reuse purposes, so I don't think you need to call this out. If you want to call it out, it needs to be reworded.

Example:

[source,xml]
----
2.a - Flow with only a logger component
<flow name="just-logging">
        <logger level="INFO" message="#[output json --- attributes.queryParams]" />
</flow>
----

[[mule-messages]]
== Mule Messages

> A _Mule message_ is the data (the payload and its attributes) that passes through an application through one or more Mule flows. A Mule message is a part of a Mule Event, which is generated when the event source within a Mule flow of a Mule application is triggered. For instance, when an HTTP listener receives a request or each time the scheduler component triggers an execution of the Mule flow, a Mule event, consisting of a Mule message is created. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _Mule message_ is the data (the payload and its attributes) that passes through one or more Mule flows in an application. A Mule message is part of a Mule event, which is generated when the event source within a Mule flow is triggered. For example, a Mule event that consists of a Mule message is created when an HTTP listener receives a request or each time the scheduler component triggers an execution of the Mule flow. 
```

Mule message processors in a Mule flow (such as core components, file read operations, or the HTTP request operations) can then retrieve, set, and process Mule message data that resides in the Mule event according to their configurations. 
A Mule message is immutable, so every change to a Mule message results in the creation of a new instance. Each processor in a flow that receives a Mule message returns a new Mule message that consists of a message payload (the body of the message) and message attributes (metadata associated with the message).

[[billable-mule-messages]]

> === Which Mule Message Scenarios Count towards your Anypoint Platform Package Allotment?

Author: ```suggestion
=== Mule Message Scenarios that Count Towards Your Anypoint Platform Package Allotment
```

> A Mule message is immutable, so every change to a Mule message results in the creation of a new instance. Each processor in a flow that receives a Mule message returns a new Mule message consisting of a message payload (the body of the message) and message attributes (metadata associated with the message).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Mule message is immutable, so every change to a Mule message results in the creation of a new instance. Each processor in a flow that receives a Mule message returns a new Mule message that consists of a message payload (the body of the message) and message attributes (metadata associated with the message).
```

Reviewer: I would break up this large paragraph by having this text as a separate paragraph.

Reviewer: immutable > unchangeable?

> When an event source within a flow of a Mule application is triggered, the _event source_ (such as HTTP, Salesforce, scheduler, and so on) generates a Mule event that encapsulates a Mule message. The Mule message that is generated by the event source counts towards your Anypoint Platform package allotment. New instances of that message, which may be created during the processing of the original message as it moves through other processors in connected Mule flows, do not count towards your Anypoint Platform package allotment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an event source within a flow of a Mule application is triggered, the _event source_ (such as HTTP, Salesforce, scheduler, and so on) generates a Mule event that encapsulates a Mule message. The Mule message generated by the event source counts towards your Anypoint Platform package allotment. New instances of that message, which can be created during the processing of the original message as it moves through other processors in connected Mule flows, do not count towards your Anypoint Platform package allotment.
```

// add the three missing examples

[[data-throughput]]
== Data Throughput

> _Data Throughput_ is all the network I/O bytes produced by the infrastructure that starts and runs the Mule Runtime server that runs a Mule application. This includes the data that the application is producing to execute its business logic, as well as internal operational network traffic such as logs, health-checks, and monitoring traffic. For example, this includes inserting a record into a database and the network traffic associated to the infrastructure of the app such as log forwarding, control plane connection, and monitoring metrics transfer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Data Throughput_ is all of the network I/O bytes produced by the infrastructure that starts and runs the Mule Runtime server that runs a Mule application. This includes the data that the application produces to execute its business logic, as well as internal operational network traffic such as logs, health-checks, and monitoring traffic. For example, data throughput includes inserting a record into a database and the network traffic associated with the infrastructure of the app, such as log forwarding, control plane connection, and monitoring metrics transfer. 
```

> = Usage Metrics

Author: ```suggestion
= Usage and Pricing Metrics
```
